Hello, everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Decent. I'm your host, Ricardo Laps. And today I'm
joined by Doctor Robert Boroski. He is the Director
of the Center for Public Anthropology and Professor Emeritus
of Anthropology at Hawaii Pacific University. He's the author
of several books. And today we're going to focus
mostly on and anthropology of anthropology. Is it time
to shift paradigms? And we're also going to talk
a little bit about public anthropology. So, Doctor Barosy,
welcome to the show. It's a big pleasure to
everyone.
Thank you very much Ricardo. I appreciate it. So
we don't always get invited to youtube channels starting
in Portugal. So, yeah, this is exciting to me.
Great. Uh Likewise. So, um uh let me start
by asking you this. You wrote, as I said,
this book, an Anthropology of Anthropology. But what do
you mean by an anthropology of anthropology? Exactly.
This is very fascinating to me. We have all
these anthropologists studying these other societies and some study
our own, right? Do they really stay their own
discipline? Excuse me? For the spontaneous gesture? Um No
worries. It's um David Graber, the deceased David Graber.
Um Well, it's very nice thing. But um this
book you might have it here. Yes. Um He
wrote um anthropologists announcement announcement, a generation reflecting on
power dynamics in the field. And um he says,
quote, that is really they are unlikely to be
any real world consequences because we are the ones
with all the power. We say all these other
people in all their organizations, but we dominate because
it's the power structure implicit in them. Um But,
but have written almost nothing about the conditions of
work, patronage, funding and institutional hierarchy in the economy.
That is the power relations under which anthropologists writing
is actually produced. This was the most postmodernist thing
that George market tried to do. But in the
end, it perpetuate the same stretches. So George will
be pissed. Am I saying that? Sorry George? Um
Roosky is one of the few who had the
rec uh records that carry should do so that
he said that yeah, we have to go beyond
just talking about other people's structures which you look
at our own. Um And not just in the
writing which the post moderns do very well, but
really the power dynamics that keep us from really
um facilitating significant change. Um The various structures of
all this incessant publication, it in principle good that
you get it out to all these other people,
but what they write and what they produce not
very legible or intelligible to many people, including myself
at times. And um, many of the publications I
just counted not right when they have tenure reviews
a study by the, um, kneer Corporation, I believe.
And they said, um, half the faculty research, one
universities or maybe more than half believe that most
of their publications in tenure review account and not
read, you just have a few things. And so
there's all this movement of appearing to be intellectual,
appearing to do all these things appearing to help
others. Um It's not clear that they do that
an anthropology, anthropology means we should look at these
dynamics. Why are we dysfunction? Why is it discipline
losing importance it had, I think it's 12,000 members
um about a decade or more ago. It has
about 8000. The AAA American Anthropological Association has about
8000 members. Now. Um It's the in the class
sizes for anthropology um and decreasing in the United
States. Why has anthropologist lost its push? And it
turned to in intellectualism um in talking about post
colonialism, which sounds great, but really um doesn't get
the polo colonial structures that still exist. We'll get
to that with the question of culture in a
minute. But there's a sense that um these people
aren't very reflective about themselves in an honest way
about the power relations that really shape the discipline
and they clearly shape it. And so an anthropology
of anthropology is using anthropology techniques to actually look
at these and try and make it anthropology. So
wonders of wonders, miracles are miracles. Anthropology could benefit
other people in a way that they would really
find helpful. That's a goal. And um anthropology and
the body means being more reflective about the power
dynamics that limit um as being effective in serving
the brighter moral good and, and maybe no, no,
of course.
And so one of the things that you talk
about in the book is uh to focus on
outcomes and what results from publications in anthropology. But
I, I mean, why do we need or do
you argue that we need to focus more on
the outcome? Because I mean, many times when we
hear academics talking, they talk about things about like
pursuing the truth, finding out something about reality out
there. But I mean, per perhaps uh when it
comes to the actual outcomes of the work, many
times, people are not so focused on that apart
from producing, of course. But I mean, what do
you mean by these? And what are the outcomes
that you have in mind here?
OK. Let me just go to truth if they
can find it, be my guest. But I believe
it's like Don Quixote tilting, it will, it keeps
an employee, it gave Don Quixote something to do
a purpose. But um it's not clear to me
that that does it when I mean, outcomes if
we are funded as we are by mostly by
state institutions that give us taxpayers money and we
are in other ways supported by all these people
who host us and live among them. I live
for 14 months. Among these people, 750 people, my
wife and my daughter and myself on a coral,
a toll in the middle of the Pacific. The
boat came out three times a year. Um These
people put up with my incessant questions. They're very
hospitable by and large, don't I? So in some
moral way, have a reciprocity in the most sense.
Oh They gave me a very important gift that
allowed me to have a career in anthropology. Should
I in turn, help them? And this gets to
be really intriguing because we'll get to, how can
you actually help people and saying you're gonna help
people, doesn't really help them often. You have all
these people who kind of, who say they're gonna
help you or all these NGO S that say
they're doing all these good things or governments that
say they're doing a good thing. It's mostly focus
on appearance, what I'm going to do. And here's
an example of how, how is I'm giving my
field notes back to the people, the original field
notes back to the people um in Poca, Poca
and I'm putting them on the web because they
have a global desper, they um poke poke in
the Cook Islands in New Zealand, um Australia and
other places. Um And let them just use it
now, this is important. Um BECAUSE they didn't take
it and don't trust me as a source of
all wisdom. They would never do that. I would
be so foolish to do that. But they have
it and they can use it to then create
their own visions, their own history or their own
present. It gives them tools to empower themselves. Now,
they, they cannot change the economic condition. Most of
them um go to New Zea over half, go
to New Zealand and live there or live off
the government do in New Zealand. Um And then
have in doing that though, they have all these
community responsibilities that help preserve the community, help take
care of these people um who are having trouble.
And so they try and make a community that,
that's product, socially productive and socially affirming. Um um
THE Pocas here, you know, I just get homeless
and left by the wayside because it's a caring
community. And um but the sense is that they
will take this and use it for their own
ends. I did not change the names. They got
very pissed. I use that word when I um
suggested that we just use code names as anthropologist
to do. They want to take credit for what
they had the idea that I would use. Um
And then I give them credit with insulting to
them. Um And all these people wanna be able
to show their Children grandchildren, their relatives or neighbors
that they contributed. I think I had about 100
island of 750. Um, I had about 100 and
80 informants in the end and all those are
listed. The idea is to do things that let
them take control, more control over their own fate.
They don't have control over it. The power dynamics
and nor do they have it in New Zealand
or Australia. But they do have something that can
give them dignity and it empowers them. The idea
that people create their own history, as Max famously
said, not under the conditions of own making is
very true, but here they can create their own
cultural traditions and in terms more of their own
making that helped answer in some small way about
what I mean by outcome, benefiting those who won
funding your research and those who help facilitate it
for governments. Um Let's just take that for a
second. Why would governments not mine that you don't
do a great deal of good, you should be
for all this stuff. Partly it's um you see,
I medicine because it takes time to find the
right thing in anthropology. They do all these things.
But what anthropologists do very well is they don't
really, they talk about disrupting the status quo incessantly,
they talk about how they're gonna have this big
dynamic effect that they never do. So talking about
change and doing productive things and lots of people
do, lots of institutions, government states. Um BUT they
don't do it. And so all these publications that
few people read are good because they do keep
the anthropologist busy. They keep them um self-aggrandizing and
trying to be important. But these trends come and
go as you um raised with me in one
of your questions and um what the heck is
going on? Where's the value for other people who
are funding them? I don't know about you, but
you pay taxes in Portugal and you would like
to see the Portuguese government do something positive with
them. Not just let a few people prim and
prime themselves about um their own self aggrandizement with
books that nobody reads and don't help the people
who help them do their research. That's what I
mean by outcome, doing something that empowers the people
to try and take control of their fate and
try and prove the common good in the states
that fund them.
OK. But, but then let me ask you this
and probably uh some aspects of this question that
I'm about to ask. You will come up later
on in our conversation again. But uh in hearing
what you said there, what you answered to my
previous question, I would imagine that many people, academics,
intellectuals and other kinds of people would react to
what you said there by saying something like, oh,
but then you're saying that science, anthropology in this
specific case. But I would imagine that in your
view, it would apply to all science out there
would need to have also some political goals, moral
goals instead of, as some people say, instead of
being a political, a moral because what matters, uh
at least, um, as they say, uh what matters
is for us. I, I if for science is
to uncover the truth and then, uh the rest,
uh that, that has to do more with politics,
morality, helping people and so on doesn't matter that
much, that's for other people to deal with. And
they also say that sometimes having those goals in
mind might in a way, um I don't know,
contaminate in a sense, the production of knowledge. So
I, I mean, I want to ask you this
because I really want to hear what would be
your real, right, Ken. They say all this and
I view this as disingenuous or self delusionary. In
the end, I can use other words, but let's
not do it in a formal interview. Um There's
a sense of um they believe it because it's
self serving. Matthew Arnold famously said truth is beauty,
beauty truth. And that's all you need to know.
That's all you will know. I believe the ending
is and um beauty maybe. But um these anthropologists
are looking to say how these people lived and
it turns out we'll get to this perhaps. Um
They don't really know if you interview five informants
and I 755,000 and group community. How the heck
can you say that those five informants are the
most knowledgeable? I interviewed, as I said, I talked
with about 100 and 80 people by interviewing intensively
about 60 people. Um 50 of the 50 of
those deemed most knowledgeable and I can compare them
with what had been said by um an anthropologist
who visited them in 1935 30 six. I believe
it is. Um, AND I have been in 77
to 81. Ok. Um Different, you know, all these
people have different views of the old system. They
have different views of which fish exists in Poca
Pogan, w which um fish hooks. The po the
Poca Pogan gave to the Fisher Museum in 1937
or so, which um material culture they had in
3637 when the Beagle hosts did their research. I'm
not sure I have the exact date there, but
it's in the very late thirties. Ok. Um And
people differ. The first is one of the central
elements, not only of this human species, but I
think life on earth, it has all these diversity.
They just found some new species. Um Off I
think Chile um in the underwater, the mountain range.
Um THE, and keep on finding differences and all
these species. Now, all humans are absolutely not alike.
All the people in this small island of 750
people are not alike. Um, TO say there's an
American culture and that's a little ish. Um, WE
certainly know Americans are quite different at times. And,
um, that's a political statement. The idea that people
are going off to truth. I wanna know really
what they're doing with it. It's a camouflage for
actually trying to just go on and do what
they want because they don't, what is true. And
they, they're talking about building cumulative knowledge. Great. But
if they do that, that's how they feel notes
out in the public. Let's there was a um
as I mentioned in that book and Lance, there
was about 80% of the medical research is worthless.
They said Lance of all places and others have
done this because all of this shades, they don't
give you all the data, they distort it. They
have all this um imperfections. The National Institute of
Health, the largest funder of health projects in the
world is now asking now demanding everybody put their
field research on their research data in an archive
that can be publicly accessible. Um There's a new
movement I just signed the economist about, well, it's
been going on but there's a new journal, a
new editor, a journal point journal. Um THE saying
that everybody has to show the data. Um If
they're gone for truth, great, maybe you can show
us a data that brings you to that truth
because claiming truth. What makes you not a false
prophet? What makes you, um, any more than a
political um challenge that's self serving, trying to aggrandize
yourself and avoid moral responsibilities to the people who
funded you and the people who helped you. Mhm.
I can go on in a more point way
but I
think, uh, you know, of, of course, but I
guess we'll have more time to explore more details
surrounding that in later questions. So I, I would
like to ask you now to get a little
bit here, a little bit more into the theoretical
aspects of all of these uh the, the things
you explore in your book. Um What is culture?
Exactly? What does
it do? Culture? I'm not really sure what culture
is. Let's be clear. Um Anthropologists have all anthropologists
have a very clear definition. If you look in
anthropology textbook, you will see various definitions, but they
differ. Do they share a common view? Do they
allow people to interact with one another? Papuans interact
with one another all the time? And yet they
don't share common views like straight talk about property.
Americans interact with one another. So they don't share
common views politically. Um Does that mean they, because
they interact and proper with each other? And they
have a distinctive way of talking doesn't seem to
me very different from Mexico or Canada or the
United States uh from, from Europe. People have all
these different ways of interacting and negotiating and those
negotiating style on just to one group of people
in terms of content, which is what usually refers
to culture. People don't all share that confidence for
sure. They have vague understanding and not if POA
pokings can't agree on which fish are in their
waters, they can't agree in which the old fish
hooks were. They can't agree in the present social
organization, they can agree in who owns a particular
piece of land. And they, he, they don't, I'm
not sure we can say that the Unified Culture
Program and cluck home long ago, they found, I
think 100 and 50 definitions of culture and there's
all these things, it be nobody, nobody knows. And
you might not have had this in your and
your and the interviews talking about civilization and culture,
natural science mentions this. That's how it came to
it. And um the idea of culture is just
unifying during the German romantic era, all these different
oppression over German states and got them um unified.
He did it politically. It just doesn't work. Um
All these people that are different. And if you're
an anthropologist, you go interview five or six trusted
informants. Whiting. John Whiting once told me you only
need three good informants. Yeah, about the culture. I
didn't challenge him because I was a graduate student.
Um AND time talking to him on the phone.
But um no, if you want to know what
the group of 750 people. Ah, well, first of
all, you have to stamp, sample them more effectively
and you have to say which group and young
people, not as I interviewed 16 of the older
people, it seems more knowledgeable about, I think. 30
30 um, one second, I interviewed 80 informants all
the time. Um, IT'S been 40 years a little
rusty. Um, BUT, uh, in a sense and then
I talked to both the emotion um knowledge about
the subject and all they different. And then they
came to a group together in a group, they
came to a common version. And then when they
left, they went back to their own original versions.
They were just being polite in the group. So
there's all this fluidity about what culture is but
people believe even what they think. Um That's ok
when people are doing these things, they're responding to
context, they're shaping the behaviors. There's certain things from
the past that shape them in the present. These
are all known and very true. But it doesn't
mean that one group um as a unique thing
that's only not shared with other people, probably shared
widely with a brand of people. I, I defy
you to tell me what American culture is. I
mean, it's,
it's complicated, I guess you have to look at
different uh at people with different socio-economic backgrounds, with
different sub uh subcultural backgrounds. If you want to
call them that and, uh, I, I mean, of
course we can talk about, it would be very
hard to talk about one unified American or Portuguese
or whatever.
I didn't say. What do you think? Is this?
Have you have a uni culture?
Uh No, I don't think so. I, I mean,
even, even just the simple fact of comparing, for
example, people from rural areas to people who live
in cities or something like that, the urban areas,
I mean, there are many diff e evident differences
there. So
even the people who live in that city or
even in a rural village that's different. Yeah. And
human diversity and some of them just differ for
spite, they just like being different than someone else.
Um And so the idea of this unified culture,
so I'm not sure what culture is. Um ANTHROPOLOGISTS
have grasped onto it as an identity marker. But
the notion that they have this culture is a
very colonial vision. Um If I could say generally
that they're trying to say um you can fit
all these people into one nice spot, which is
what Boaz did in his sense of culture. Um
THE Eskimos. Um BUT there's a sense that he
um of anthropologists ignoring all these differences and that
to frame them as a collectivity without the individuality,
without their diversity is very colonial. It's very talking
about in a colonial way of um the col
imperialism framed the world.
Mhm So we'll come back to, to that colonial
aspect in a second. But let me just ask
you then what is, then the object or what
are the objects of study of cultural anthropology? I
mean, what kinds of questions does it deal with?
To me, it's my view, culture and anthropology is
rather important. If we live in a world of
diversity, it's absolutely stamped in us of human differences,
cultural anthropology or social anthropology or however you wanna
call it. And it's beyond me how they call
it um is to try and help understand human
differences and find common ground among them. What you
want to do is understand how other people think
from their perspectives in the diversity and try and
have common good come out of this, helping them.
Um As well as you to find ways to
um work together, find common solutions. We're right now
in a problem of climate change and it's a
very ish proposition whether we will get to the
State of Paris Agreement, they will back a it
pretty soon um about climate change. And there's a
sense that um people can, we find ways to
frame things to help one another. Um And all
these um things, there's enough conflict, it's enough, silence
isn't enough misunderstanding is enough stereotyping or the Portuguese.
If you go to Spain, they will say the
Portuguese. So this way you go to Portugal and
say, oh the Spanish this way, that's all. That's
a political tool. And if you can get below
these political tools, try and understand people on their
own terms and what is meaningful and what motivates
them and try and bring good to, um, in
some sort. Certainly to the people that you work
with and certainly facilitate policies, policies of the states
so that they plan to do not for their
own self interest, but for um, others that would
seem to me not a bad place to begin,
but you're working with people not telling them how
to help them. Um Your mother probably tells you
how to help him. You don't like it. I
my mother is dead but I didn't like that.
You have to or interact with people in participatory
if you will, but you don't frame the things.
Um It's intriguing to think about giving people back
their field notes, not because they will use it
in my terms. They will use it in their
terms and they do all sorts of different things
and you'll dispute um Much of what I say
perhaps fine, but it'll give them a way to
feel empowered in shaping their future. You wanna help
people feel power in shaping the future in a
world that doesn't encourage that necessary. So culture, anthropology
helps you engage with human differences, understand them better
and try and find common good in a way
that helps improve the human condition, especially for the
people you work with.
And what would you say, are some of the
biggest challenges of doing ethnographic work
value. Any other graphic records of what I said
is a really big challenge here. But we'll get
to that. I presume, OK, um Trying to really,
and ethnic ethnographic work is absolutely wonderful. Um You
go in and you live with people and you
interact with them. You come to understand how they
envision the world. This is really great, how they
do things Malinowski famously said about um living among
them and how that helped um seeing everything versus
point to Radcliffe living on the porch in the,
with the Australian Aborigines. I'm having people come to
him and tell them these answers. Um BUT um,
the question of the problems, you have to talk
to a lot of people, you have to stay
there a lot of time. Um WHEN you seem
sufficient, suppose if you just do four or five
informants, I did 80 at least. And I guess,
and all these other people helped me. I stayed
there 41 months. Um We need you to really
go there and you have to ask big questions.
The question I asked that led me off was
that, um, the Beagle host have been there and
trying to find out the exact date. I'm a
little embarrassed here um when they did in the
late thirties and um, they know this until I
compared what people said about the past with what
they had, it turns out they were in the
midst of a cultural revival. Um THE ACAA system
in which um several key informants, prominent informants um
said they had, you remember living through in the
earlier years, there have been five anthropologists before me.
In all this government reports, no one ever mentioned.
The question I dealt with in the first book
was did the popo intervention a new tradition and
the anthropologists e recording an old one and the
issue, the answer, as I said, both the poos
are always revising the path, very Polynesian, very Pacific
Islander to um bring it up to date. So
it's meaningful to them and bring it up to
date. It empowers them because they then take charge
of what they believe their traditions. Um It's one
thing to listen to your parents tell you how
it was in Portugal in the old days. It's
another thing for you to take those, change them
around making what you think is meaningful and then
say to your Children, this is how it is,
this is how it was. Um IT empowers you
as a person. Um Now the last of my
sense of the track for a second ethnographic field
work um that the problems of ethnographic field work
as to have all these different views and to
um understand that people can present that to you,
particularly in a group of others may um be
just trying to look positive. It's a trend. Um
And clearly when they get into these groups, I
have it very clearly record. I went through before
they get to the group and another group and
they view when they get in the group and
then different uh probably somewhere close to the original
view when they leave the group. So that all
this view is things you have to understand what
the complexity of it. But in getting some of
this is better than nothing stereotyping, Portuguese, uh blah,
blah, blah, who actually engaging with Portuguese and getting
a sense of them having appreciation. And God knows
about Americans um tremendous diversity. And um and right
now, of course, for me, sadness about what's going
on um is really, um you have to engage
with that to understand it. I think it's fair
to say Americans who land a possibility, but a
lot of possibility and um how do these people
envision, how do they have hope, what are they
doing this? So you engage with people and that's
what I think graphic does and trying to do
it with a broader sample, I guess I'm getting
hit that point. I'm sorry, being worthy. You have
to engage with a broad number of people over
a long period of time to get it good.
That would have been the short answer I should
have given you at first.
And so when it comes to the practice of
cultural anthropology and perhaps going a little bit back
to one of the points you made at the
beginning of our conversation in what ways does the
academic context shape?
It shapes it very clearly. Um It pays the
academic salaries, it makes it, it gives it um
in place to me. You do know that in
the early days we were saying in 18 seventies,
anthropologists did not reside in um universities. Often they
reside in museums in the small detail relation that
the American anthropologists originally gave people when they gave
their affiliation, they gave their home addresses with Bo
eyes and the rises of um anthology from him,
they start giving the university affiliations the academic. Um
And today the academic affiliation is certainly cut. Wait,
who can get a job where those in the
elite schools tend to get more jobs, definitely get
maybe 10. Is it often tend to get um
more jobs than those at lower size universities. But
the very sense of trying to of publishing all
this material, which goes back to the 17 hundreds,
at least in Germany, they said professors had to
um publish things to give people to know they
were doing something to bring in funding to the
right test today. Um Is that, let me just
think how to phrase it? Um And lost track
for a second. I'm just thinking about Germany then
um the focus, the question is culture and what
is the cultural oh tied to the academics?
Uh All the academic context shapes the practice of
cultural
andrology. But I'm more, that was a warm up
for the base because I'm gonna be much more
direct. It shapes their components and makes them so
they appear to be doing all these dynamic issues
a certain come and clearly like micro me and
others really stir public debate by and large. Um
ALL these publications, all these things. Um I'm going
anywhere and that's my view purposeful because it means
that universities aren't threatened. Um They don't have to
threaten their fundraiser just with this whole issue of
Gaza. Um ON these academics um being told that
they can, they have to be students until they
have to be very careful about not being anti
or anti scientist or anti-israeli. And the Palestinians are
clearly suffering and having these massacres. And what do
you eat? Genocide? Depends on how you define genocide,
but they supposedly have to behave. Um They can't
go around protesting too much about what is really
to my mind, despicable thing is really so out
of hand excessive. Um What happened there is the
initial attack by the Palestinians was deeply unfortunate, but
the response is far more unfortunate. Um And, and
keep it down that you don't have the academic
say too much though. And though there was protest
at first they all become soft present becomes softer.
The um because they want the funds, um they
don't wanna lose their jobs. It becomes a politically,
it has appearance of disruption, change without being that
the academics have, um, now write all these publications
that and some, like, vapors or vapors, they just
don't matter that much. Um, YEAH. Shouldn't we be
trying to help others if we get money, if
we get help from them? Um, IT'S something, um,
it's a bit moral, um, academics while talking more
often it is very self serving, aggrandizement of individuals,
um, talking about how important they are and they
talk about all this good they're doing. It sounds
good. I don't know if it is good because
we don't see the data, we don't see what's
really happening. Um When all these people say they,
they, the people they lived among um love them.
If you are the only source of that, what
do you believe? Um YOU want to see the
field of, you want to see their data, you
want to be able to um too good the
benefits others besides yourself and academics allows you to
get away with talking about truth and beauty. Well,
not beauty, but I think that um that um
doesn't exist as a way of conning out um
your own self aggrandizement and the political pac conversation
of you in terms of um the bri and
good when you're in the academy, I think that
covers it, that it could be more vocal but
gets a big basic idea. It's highly provocative as
you can imagine. Um A few people sort of
agree with me maybe agree with me temporarily, but
that's really what's going on. The hegemonic structures, the
University of hegemonic and a revised sense of sub
hegemonic or whatever you want to use, going to
jump, um, keep university professors and academics politically passive
so the school can get more money. It doesn't
disrupt the funders of those who support them. Um,
WELL, glorifying in all these publications that they have
that don't, in the end do a lot, they
said they build truth up here. But if they
don't show the data, who the hell knows. It
was a, um, I mean, you Phil Salman who
caught someone else that is when you try and
bring different anthropologists together, um about a particular region
or even Spain and you try and find out
how they, um I don't all together, it's very
difficult. They have all these different things you want
to see the data and how they come to
it as a way of trying to get a
broad underst understand that can benefit others.
But these hegemonic structures that you talk about there,
where do they stem from? Exactly? Is it from
the socio cultural context they exist in?
Yeah, they, um, Ramsey is a good person to
begin with but he talked, he was this poor
guy in prison for so many years scribbling notes
in um in prison, passing them out. Um He
uh ideas that these are broader frameworks in which
we operate and we don't, we're focusing on everyday
life and the details are we don't see a
bigger picture. The bigger picture um is the way
those in power maintain their power. Um Basically, it's
a power thing. Um It comes from the cultural
context but raise among human. So I think, I
don't know, but I think it's, well, let's say
very common in human societies, the people um do
not grasp the bigger picture, the truths and present.
So they try and defend against it. They try
and do things but they can never succeed by
opposing something. They actually reinforce it because this isn't
succeed in imposing a debt freedom. They're just not
succeeding. Um But in fact, the very structures don't
allow them to suc succeed in here, anthropologists and
intellectuals could help illuminate this hegemonic structure. They're not
doing a good job of that, certainly not anthropologists.
And uh uh I mean, going back to one
of the points you've alluded to earlier in our
conversation, what are, would you say the drawbacks of
specialization?
You only see the bigger picture of the hegemonic
things. People talk about these and there's some very
good things, you know why Nancy Shepherd J pa
particularly Paul Farmer talks all these bigger issues. But
um they tend to get lost um in the
Russia for in interest, you're able to keep control
of what you're studying. If I specialize in antibiotics.
Now specialize in subtopics or sub fields are within
that society. Um YOU miss a lot of dynamics
going on in the society. He lets you feel
like you have control over something, right? Your feeling
control doesn't mean you're adding full knowledge, particularly if
you're not showing others how you got the data
and how they can then confirm and not get
other broader perspectives. Um Yeah, Poca. Poca, right? You're
not sure. Um TALK various when I had a
public display, my own public display. And then before
I put out these notes, which I'm about to
do within the next two or three months, um
they were very respectful to me and so forth
when they get them, they will argue with me,
they will argue with this and that, that's to
be expected, they're trying to empower themselves. Um That's
what academics do. They try to power themselves, elbowing
everybody else in their own things saying that and
to trust and truth I did as you may
know um about the Yanomami experience. Some of those
people are very nice people, Ray Haines are particularly
like um that's one that I like, but um
they just have to go at each other, they
just can't stop. Um And not really just truth
in my mind as much as scoring points and
writing more articles at the end of feeling more
empowered. Um It just goes on and on. Um
ALONE, can we do something better who we people
who are helping us?
Yeah. So uh uh uh I would like to
get into the topic of public anthropology. But just
before that, could you tell us what, uh post
colonialism really means? Because many times we hear people
talking about it but they tend to be very
dismissive. Some people say that it's, I mean, actually
not real science, but I, I would like to
hear as someone who, uh, who proposes a post
colonial approach. Uh I would like to hear from
you what it really entails.
This is very interesting, a good rule to show
that I'm not fully courage to take on the
system is I should tell you the truth here.
Um, I think post colonialism, it was very hot
about 20 years ago and came back now with
Aurora because anthropologists need something to write about all
these transit because they need things to write about.
They write about them and then like a slash
and burn economy gets filled up with all these
weeds and things. So they had to go on
to something else. Um, I think Anthony Wallace in
1960 said that too long before most people's time.
Um, MAYBE it was a wolf. I don't know.
Sorry. Um, ANYWAY, the idea, um, post colonialism. Mhm.
Since we're pretty much stealing colonialism, I'm not sure
what post is the, the talking about post colonialism.
We just as post colonialism exists. Um, IT may
be like with Gertrude Stein said of Oakland in
a famous quote which I presume you do not
know. They said there's no, there there um she
was saying, but San Francisco Bay was really open
and there's no idea that where is a clear
delineation of people embracing post Mongia in more than
rhetoric, they talk about participating and helping these people.
God knows the colonial regimes did that as well
in some places like Uganda and Nigeria and Nadal
um did a very good job at times in
helping for in his time and his terms. And
what's happening now in Nigeria? Um Uganda is side
to my mind um that there's a sense of
um people did good then they're trying to do
good. Now it seems to me is an elbowing
out of the old. They try to put themselves
into new and be prima donnas, I think in
a way maybe I shouldn't um be in the
attic by um uh my old days, you forget
it was an American anthropologist, um former president of
the Anthology American Anthropological Association. Um It's suggesting making
me less effective to be old and not remember
everybody's name. That's something um The ale is just
trying to tear down the old. Um And it
makes no sense trying to do that unless you're
trying to, you know, um fashion brand. I mean,
just make more space for your new publications, which
it's doing. But what the hell goes on if
you're just focusing on new publications and not helping?
Are they benefiting others particularly those who helped you,
who you benefit from. Um It's just another excuse
me, Shane. Um I remember you have to regret
this. It's just another scan you're talking about all
these new things, blah, blah, blah, blah, um de
integrating the old as a way of being able
to publish new things. The focus in the publications
declaring something new rather than trying to do something
good. Um I mean, I understand good is like
truth. It's very vague and so forth. But if
you can empower the people in a way that
they can feel good about trying to address their
problems and that's very good one that relate to
that. One of the themes in America, there's tremendous
inequalities more so than Portugal Spain, so horrendous ones.
Um But many of the people could, came in
the morning with a sense of hope of possibility
that they can improve their life. It may not
be true. This ideology makes life more livable. So
they do that. The sense of trying to help
people feel empowered and more hope is not a
bad way to go rather than just trying to
publish more publications that cited by so many people
and within such a period of time. Um I'm
doing a project with All Metric which you may
have heard of. I mean to a degree people
have cited in the, their publication is cited in
the public room going to the newspapers of the
world. And um that will be coming up soon.
But I've tried to encourage them with them saying
here's the people who are doing this and I
tried to say here, departments now, next month or
two, talk about a ranking system. Here's this university
or departments, here's a rank and here's the people
who contributing to that ranking is the people who
are not. And if these people who are not
doing it could publish more in the public realm,
they would get a higher ranking. I don't know.
Um But the idea is trying to get people
out of the narrow niche and do broader good.
I mean, what the is going on here is
this just um a talk show in which people
can say what they want and do what they
want. Is there no moral basis for what we're
going we're doing here. Mhm The answer is no,
there isn't but um sinus moment but also probably
really moments, intellectuals having a very protective protected lifestyle
could do more, should do more for helping improve
the human condition.
And so what is then a public anthropology?
OK. I coined the term um And everybody would
say, oh yeah, this is good. The first surprise
of coining it is all these people started arguing
with me about what it meant and about finding
other terms engage in. Um SO apply anthropology who
I thought would be really good to work with.
And we have all these overlapping things really trying
to ice me out. Oh, you know, it's all
apply anthropology. I mean, in the end, what is
this all about? This is just giving people more
space to publish, to argue and argue about these
things. Public anthropology with very clearly a series that
came out of the California s with the California
series of Public Anthropology is now being continued on
University of California Press. But as I talk to
you here, it sort of a vision of dealing
with public problems in public ways that can make
a difference to others. And, um, I have so
I have all these different definitions. I bring up,
I'm very liberal myself about what it means. I'm
not sure I haven't been there. It was just
shocked to see all these people arguing with me
about it. Um, LIKE they knew it, try to
just claim it and elbow me out. Um, THOUGH
it's had an impact on these various programs. It
was for a while. Um, JUST a current anthropology,
which they had a public anthropology forum, I believe
in their, um, in there. Um, IT'S been used
in very twice but, um, lot of people try
to coop into their own ends and they're doing
reasonably well in their own terms. But I don't
believe that's what public anthropologist, that's what I'm saying,
trying to help others benefit others do good that
empowers other people in ways that make you feel
good. You can have hope the future, not just
the oppression
and what specific issues does it address
the world, but particularly, as I've said in anthropology
of anthropology, the hegemonic structures that limit anthropologists from
doing squat and keep them talking about these dynamics
and talking about this being bla bla and, um,
not doing very much. Um, THEY try but maybe
they've made a difference. But it's a question of
whether you have the hegemonic structures that we talked
about earlier or maintain the stay seem to work
reasonably well. People. Um No change. That's what I'm
trying to point out. And as you perhaps know,
it's a losing battle and people who are going
to just sit run dominate and I in my
retirement in Hawaii with enough fun to just keep
on making the point, trying to remind people there's
something more than their own self, a brand, even
more than just their own self interest that they
should be helping others in the world, benefiting other
particular people who help them on the state to
make human life to improve the human condition, not,
not by cutting down trees and publishing more books,
but by um helping people feel more empowered about
trying to do good. It's a very complex issue
but what good means in all these things and
they're trying to empower them. So they become more,
they have more control over their own fate.
And when it comes to the ethics side of
things here, does it, I it, I would imagine
that it also includes uh the way we do
ethnography and the way we treat the subjects of
study in anthropology, namely the people from, for e
for example, traditional societies and elsewhere.
I'm not sure what tradition is just in the
side. Um We go, we go to these places
and we say, oh, this is traditional society because
it's not like us. And we are the center
of dynamic change. We have no idea as graver
and the other person in the history of Don
talked about these societies are always changing so traditional.
I'm not sure it just means something like us,
but I know exactly what you mean.
I, I mean, I mean, let's say then non
industrialized societies
perhaps, maybe just, maybe that should be something you
negotiate with the people themselves, you come with these
rules, you're not supposed to cite them by name
in your field work, which the poca pokings off
tremendously as I said to you before, they want
to be cited. What am I icing them out,
making them nameless characters? Um There's a sense of
um negotiating those ethics with the people in an
honest way. You do not want me to tell
you, Ricardo how you were supposed to lead your
life, going to my ethics and you have to
negotiate that with me or I with you that
we have to um talk about. And so let's
leave ethics. Phil Philosophical can um steady open because
it's trying wait all the time. Um, AND try
and deal with the people themselves. Here's a tricky
situation. Shannon who is now deceased ju, and ethical.
Should he have given guns to these Yanomami who
then perceived to turn around and kill a Yanomami?
Yeah. The mommy got the guns really liked it.
You know, mommy got killed and no, and it
turns out it's supposedly, I don't know if it's
true. So the missionaries were involved in some of
this. It gets to be this whole can of
worms and so forth. Um It's never easy but
the question is, I think what groups are you
dealing with? And what terms and how can you
find something that will work? Did Neil and all
his work with the, you know, Mommy for the
National Atomic Commission. I'm getting a little every night,
every night here. Um But the Yami controversy, I
don't believe Neil tried previously caused um an epidemic
among the um you know, Mommy trying to do
good, but it's often, but he never consulted them.
Consulting with people was a decent long way to
um trying to make things work between you. That
would be my take on ethics, talk to the
people, listen to them right yet listen to them
negotiate what will work for both parties.
And do you think there is enough collaboration across
subfields in anthropology?
Short answer is no. Um The proper answer is
yes I did. This paper some years ago. Um
AND it said basically that the Cooper operation among
subfields, which is very important to some anthropologists to
the establishment is a myth and went through the
old American anthropology um articles from the beginning to
the present showed most of these were very separate,
distinct features. Kroeger could deal with physical anthropology or
biological anthropology. You know, they could deal with um
linguistics, it could deal with archaeology, could deal with
ethnography, culture and anthropology, but they get all combined
um in some ways, the association because uh as
members from all these different specialties want you to
combine and want you to collaborate. It seems to
me it's not a bad thing, a good thing
trying to collaborate um not out of appearance but
out of substance, but you should collaborate with them
other people beyond its truth. Um You should just
limit to that you try and instead of dealing
with a fail with it, this is like try
and deal with problems how to ease the pain
in certain situations that people who are suffering. Um
Most places anthropologists go need more non western settings,
live under what could be termed oppressive political environments.
You know, when you get kicked out of the
country the next day, so you try and behave
in some modest way perhaps. But what can you
do to help and maybe just giving them information
that they can then get themselves in trouble over
they they can then feel empowered about, they can
do things maybe good, um, giving people the tools
they need to power themselves. That education is supposed
to do, give others a tool. So maybe you're
trying to just help them figure out how to
do things. Mhm. But, um,
no. Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry.
Now, go on. Ok.
Now, uh, I have one last question then, uh,
regarding public anthropology. So, what would you say are
the main obstacles to it?
I'm gonna get in trouble again. I, um, in
principle I should be well behaved. That's my personality.
I guess I'm too feisty. Um, YEAH, it's a
self aggrandizement of anthropologists in the hegemonic structure of
academia that prevents real political change, that prevents these
people from doing more than talking about change, appearing
to, to help others in doing squat to, um,
really focus on others. Just a simple, straightforward thing.
And you are, seem to me a sophisticated person,
talk to lots of people. I'm gonna ask you
this question. How many anthropologists, how many researchers do
you know that have made it? Put the public?
They have put their research notes, the field materials
onto the web for others to see. Um,
I mean, no one I know of. I don't,
I don't think I can name anyone unfortunately.
Yeah, I agree with it, unfortunately. And I, I'm
embarrassed, I'm somewhat nervous here that I'm doing this.
It's taken a while to get all these, unfortunately.
I have 14,000 pages of field notes because I
was here for, for 41 months and then have
in condition to piled some earlier field notes to
the 16,000 to go. But I, I'm under the
impression they haven't done that. They could simply make
it to it be more post collo if you
will to let others empower themselves rather than dictating
how that empowerment will go by making them public
on the web. Papuans were not some. I said
that the A tower system that they were under
try to say it somewhat gently but I said
it was a myth. They never really existed. Do
you think that slowed down the Poca Poca? Did
that become a um criticizing incessantly? They said that's
Rob's position. That's not mine. He doesn't know what
he's talking about. I do. Um I know what
my grandfather told me my experience and um you
just go on, I can dismiss it. I, the
theological will have po comments about particular people and
they'll laugh and say, yeah, that's true of that
person or that wasn't me or that's, but they're
used to this back and forth. You walk out
your door and people say nice things and not
so nice things. That's just life. And I if
you look at me carefully here, I'm not God,
I'm not an expert on person. I 14,000 pages
of funerals here, many from surveys, but there's a
sense of um just one more view that they
can take and use for themselves. But why should
we give them tools for their own empowerment by
showing the film notes? I came in this by
accident and have great insight here. Um But um
I think, oh, I was gonna give them to
the University of Auckland Library because they had it
on the notes and then I retired. Um AND
then say, oh, maybe that's Ganda and that maybe
who knows when that would happen. And then I
decided I can scan them myself here in the
body and turned out to be a lot longer
than I thought. And then universal often did not
want them because they weren't just these unique things
that only them would have. I said that's great.
I'll just put it on the web myself. I
have the ability to do that. So that's the
next two or three months. I'm hoping in two
months, maybe that, but, and down your nose, um
it will all be out there. And then the
idea to like Pocas use them and have people
help them from the community make sense of them
in ways that they can use more effectively. We
stir up arguments about land. Absolutely. Instead of just
one person giving a view of that land, they
have several and I can assure you, they won't
just believe me in an argument, they believe whatever
they want. Uh So it gives them empowerment. That's
a most colonial view. Um And like you, I
haven't found anybody. It makes me a little nervous.
What the heck am I doing here? But that's
right. It should be done. NIH, doesn't, there's a
movement like um about doing it. Um More as
I said, may have said, Lance said, um that
80% of the research was useless because there were
all these ways of not being able to replicate
anything or not just you can't replicate and post
the field work and, but you can get a
sense of how you came to it. Um, OTHER
people were there and I can see how they
came to their conclusions and I can differ with
them. Um, IS that what you perceive? So we're
going after truth purity, something else, cumulative knowledge. Maybe
we should establish being a little vulnerable and open
up your fingers.
So, Doctor Borovsky, just before we go, would you
like to tell people where they can find you
and your work on the internet?
Um That's Center for pub, I think it's Public
anthropology.org in which, um, they will be in the
front page there. Um Right. Being done now, there'll
be poke, poke and field materials. You can see
that you can go look at it now and
then you'll be under that Public Anthropology series. I
think it says, and that will, um, have more
books. Um, BUT I would, if they have the
basic materials, yeah, I would encourage them to think
for themselves and try and do something that gets
them out of these hegemonic stretches and self serving
stretches that really benefit other people. I mean, what
the hell, what's going on here? It's, I think
it's a bit of a scam that we talk
about helping all these other people and we clearly
do in some ways, we clearly help empower some
and we don't know this, but we clearly try
and, um you should do more than just talk
about it. It's more than I talk. The famous
thing by uh O Rich Cleaver. Wasn't, can you
go uh if you, if you know, not part
of the um solution, you're part of the problem.
And the idea is that these people just talk
and talk about doing concrete things and they don't
necessarily. So I like you can read some more
of my stuff. It's, it's what you said, you
can read the field notes and see what poca
pins think of it. But um and these other
projects I'm doing, I like them to try and
do innovative things themselves. How can they get this
anthropology, cultural anthropology in particular as perhaps to be
more beneficial to others, particularly in the people they
or who have facilitated their work into the broad
community that funded them in a way that we
do some of the suffering um in the human
condition today.
Mhm So I think that's a great message went
on. Doctor Borovsky. And thank you so much again
for taking the time to come on the show.
It's been a real pleasure to talk with you.
Thank you. I think I got carried away a
little bit and saying things that I very much
believe, but they're probably not gonna go down too
well, um, with some people. Um, BUT I appreciate
you asking about these Ricardo and um thank you
for this conversation.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by N Lights learning
and development. Then differently check the website at N
lights.com and also please consider supporting the show on
Patreon or paypal. I would also like to give
a huge thank you to my main patrons and
paypal supporters, Perera Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick Suno
Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam Castle Matthew Whitting
Bear. No wolf, Tim Hollis, Erica LJ Connors, Philip
Forrest Connelly. Then the Met Robert Wine in NAI
Z Mark Nevs calling in Holbrook Field, Governor Mikel
Stormer Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferus and H
her meal and Lain Jung Y and the K
Hes Mark Smith J Tom Hummel Sran David Sloan
Wilson de Ro Ro die Jan Punter, Romani Charlotte
Bli Nico Barba, Adam hunt Pavlo Stassi, Nale medicine,
Gary G Alman Sam of Zed Ypj Barboa, Julian
Price Edward Hall, Eden Broner Douglas Fry Franca Beto
Lati Gilon Cortez Solis Scott Zachary ftdw Daniel Friedman,
William Buckner, Paul Giorgio, Luke Loki, Georgio Theophano, Chris
Williams and Peter Wo David Williams, the Augusta Anton
Erickson Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralie Chevalier,
Bangalore Larry Dey junior, Old Eon Starry Michael Bailey,
then Spur by Robert Grassy Zorn, Jeff mcmahon, Jake
Zul Barnabas Radick, Mark Kempel, Thomas Dvor Luke Neeson,
Chris Tory Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica, a week
in the Brendan Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensley Man, George
Katis Valentine Steinman, Perras, Kate Van Goler, Alexander, Abert
Liam Dan Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular Jer Urla.
Good enough, Gregory Hastings David Pins of Sean Nelson,
Mike Levin and Jos Net. A special thanks to
my producers is our web, Jim Frank Lucani, Tom
Vig and Bernard N Cortes Dixon Bendik Mueller, Thomas
Rumble, Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carl Negro, Nick
Ortiz and Nick Golden. And to my executive producers,
Matthew Lavender, Si Adrian Bogdan Knit and Rosie. Thank
you for all